README.md, before:

# Contents
This file contains the relevant instructions for the coursework, regarding tasks 2 and 3.

## Repo Usage

Open GIt Bash and then copy the link below:\
Use ``git clone https://github.com/SahasT23/EEE2021Programming.git``\
Then press 'enter'. Repository has been cloned! If you are the examiner, follow the instructions below\

1. For Task 2A part 1 -> translating from RISC-V assembly to C (worth 5 marks) look at ``InitStub.c``.
2. For Task 2A part 2.1 -> look at ``RISC-V_Iterative.c``, for an iterative solution without the mul instruction. This has been done on purpose, to keep the code as close to the original assembly stub as possible. (Might change).
3. For Task 2A part 2.2, -> look at ``RISC-V_Recursive.c``, where a recursive solution has been used instead. 
4. For Task 2A extra understanding and analysis -> Look at ``FactorialAndAlternatives.c``, where I compare and contrast the the two different approaches for factorials (4 approaches in total), containing Big-O complexity for time and space, along with graphing and png files available due to Python. 
5. For the last part of 2A, -> look at ``iterative.s`` and ``recursive.s`` 

## Task 2
This task is split into two parts, Task 2A and 2B, as 2A is mostly code based, it is in this repository.

Task 2A: this folder covers the initial boilerplate code, called '**InitStub.c**'. To run, cd into the folder directory, going into ``src``, choosing the 'Task2-RISC-V-Code' folder then run ``gcc -o InitStub.c InitStub.exe``. The file will be compiled, then enter ``./InitStub``. You can see the output using the initial array for the factorial calculation. I have added a simple recurisve function so that the code can actually run.

The next two files will be simple solutions that both use the same **multiply** function to use repeated addition to simulate multiplication. They are both solutions to the RISC-V C task.

This next file is entirely for my understanding. It contains the factorial solutions, containing 4 different solutions 1. **iterative method**, 2. **recursive method**, 3. **RISC-V style iterative method** 4. **RISC-V style recursive method** (3 and 4 don't use any multiplication to comply with the RISC-V style). to compile and run the file: 1. ``gcc -o FactorialAndAlternatives.c FactorialAndAlternatives.exe`` (compiles), then to run the program, which generates a CSV file; ``./FactorialAndAlternatives``. After the CSV file has been generated, run the **FactorialPlots.py** file, which generates a graph to show the comparison and how much longer it takes for the RISC-V style code to run. 

For the second part of Task 2A, I generated the required assembly, I ran ``gcc -S FactorialAndAlternatives.c`` and ``gcc -S InitialStub.c``. I also have the two solutions for the factorial stub in RISC-V style assembly. 

---
## Task 3

The code for Task 3 has been stored in a folder called 'Task3_GeMM_C_Implementations'. It contains two C files, two Python files and relevant CSV files for plotting purposes.

---
### C File no. 1

This file is called '**GEMM.c**', containing 6 different loop orderings for the matrix multiplication aspect of the assignment. It uses square test matrices from 10x10 to 400x400 to give the user a wide range of values for comparison. This task is a demonstration of how cache locality and memory access patterns can affect the speed of the program. 

To run this file, use git clone to make a copy of this repository and then run '```gcc -o GEMM.c GEMM.exe```' in the terminal of the text editor or IDE to compile and create an executable file. After you can see the executable, then add the command '```./GEMM```' to actually run the program. The output should be a CSV file and terminal output to show the times to the user. After the CSV file has been generated, run the python file (``GEMMPlotting.py``) for an easy to read .png image file.

---
### C File no. 2

This file is called '**OptGEMM.c**', containing the MNK loop ordering for the matrix multiplication aspect of the assignment. It uses the same square test matrices from 10x10 to 400x400 to give the user a wide range of values for comparison. In this file, there is the standard MNK ordering for the loop, then an introduction to 'blocking' or 'tiling', to optimise the program a bit more. Another implementation of the same ordering uses multithreading, accounting for the parallelism aspect of the coursework, which also optimises the program. The final implementation combines both aspects (blocking and multithreading) together. 

To run this file, '``gcc -o OptGEMM.c OptGEMM.exe``' in the terminal of the text editor or IDE to compile and create an executable file. After you can see the executable, then add the command '``./OptGEMM``' to actually run the program. The output should be a CSV file, and terminal output to show the times to the user. After the CSV file has been generated, run the python file (**OptPlot.py**) for 4 .png image files, (stored in the '**plots**' folder upon creation) showing a direct comparison between the different optimisation methods and the standard non-optimised method, a logarithmic graph to show execution times and a comparison between three selected matrix sizes. You can easily alter the chosen matrix dimenstions etc.

Commit message:

tested adding bash to readme and added a sigmoid function for generating the matrix values

README.md, after:

# Contents
This file contains the relevant instructions for the coursework, regarding tasks 2 and 3.

## Repo Usage

Open GIt Bash and then copy the link below:\
```bash
git clone https://github.com/SahasT23/EEE2021Programming.git
```
Then press 'enter'. Repository has been cloned! If you are the examiner, follow the instructions below\

1. For Task 2A part 1 -> translating from RISC-V assembly to C (worth 5 marks) look at ``InitStub.c``.
2. For Task 2A part 2.1 -> look at ``RISC-V_Iterative.c``, for an iterative solution without the mul instruction. This has been done on purpose, to keep the code as close to the original assembly stub as possible. (Might change).
3. For Task 2A part 2.2, -> look at ``RISC-V_Recursive.c``, where a recursive solution has been used instead. 
4. For Task 2A extra understanding and analysis -> Look at ``FactorialAndAlternatives.c``, where I compare and contrast the the two different approaches for factorials (4 approaches in total), containing Big-O complexity for time and space, along with graphing and png files available due to Python. 
5. For the last part of 2A, -> look at ``iterative.s`` and ``recursive.s`` 

## Task 2
This task is split into two parts, Task 2A and 2B, as 2A is mostly code based, it is in this repository.

Task 2A: this folder covers the initial boilerplate code, called '**InitStub.c**'. To run, cd into the folder directory, going into ``src``, choosing the 'Task2-RISC-V-Code' folder then copy the compilation instructions below. You can see the output using the initial array for the factorial calculation. I have added a simple recurisve function so that the code can actually run.

```bash
gcc -o InitStub.c InitStub.exe
./InitStub
```

The next two files will be simple solutions that both use the same **multiply** function to use repeated addition to simulate multiplication. They are both solutions to the RISC-V C task.

This next file is entirely for my understanding. It contains the factorial solutions, containing 4 different solutions 1. **iterative method**, 2. **recursive method**, 3. **RISC-V style iterative method** 4. **RISC-V style recursive method** (3 and 4 don't use any multiplication to comply with the RISC-V style). to compile and run the file, follow the compilation instructions below. A CSV file will be generated. After the CSV file has been generated, run the **FactorialPlots.py** file, which generates a graph to show the comparison and how much longer it takes for the RISC-V style code to run. 

```bash
gcc -o FactorialAndAlternatives.c FactorialAndAlternatives.exe
./FactorialAndAlternatives
```

For the second part of Task 2A, I generated the required assembly, to do the same, follow the instructions below. I also have the two solutions for the factorial stub in RISC-V style assembly. 

```bash
gcc -S FactorialAndAlternatives.c 
gcc -S InitialStub.c
```
---
## Task 3

The code for Task 3 has been stored in a folder called 'Task3_GeMM_C_Implementations'. It contains two C files, two Python files and relevant CSV files for plotting purposes.

---
### C File no. 1

This file is called '**GEMM.c**', containing 6 different loop orderings for the matrix multiplication aspect of the assignment. It uses square test matrices from 10x10 to 400x400 to give the user a wide range of values for comparison. This task is a demonstration of how cache locality and memory access patterns can affect the speed of the program. 

To run this file, use git clone to make a copy of this repository and then run '```gcc -o GEMM.c GEMM.exe```' in the terminal of the text editor or IDE to compile and create an executable file. After you can see the executable, then add the command '```./GEMM```' to actually run the program. The output should be a CSV file and terminal output to show the times to the user. After the CSV file has been generated, run the python file (``GEMMPlotting.py``) for an easy to read .png image file.

---
### C File no. 2

This file is called '**OptGEMM.c**', containing the MNK loop ordering for the matrix multiplication aspect of the assignment. It uses the same square test matrices from 10x10 to 400x400 to give the user a wide range of values for comparison. In this file, there is the standard MNK ordering for the loop, then an introduction to 'blocking' or 'tiling', to optimise the program a bit more. Another implementation of the same ordering uses multithreading, accounting for the parallelism aspect of the coursework, which also optimises the program. The final implementation combines both aspects (blocking and multithreading) together. 

To run this file, '``gcc -o OptGEMM.c OptGEMM.exe``' in the terminal of the text editor or IDE to compile and create an executable file. After you can see the executable, then add the command '``./OptGEMM``' to actually run the program. The output should be a CSV file, and terminal output to show the times to the user. After the CSV file has been generated, run the python file (**OptPlot.py**) for 4 .png image files, (stored in the '**plots**' folder upon creation) showing a direct comparison between the different optimisation methods and the standard non-optimised method, a logarithmic graph to show execution times and a comparison between three selected matrix sizes. You can easily alter the chosen matrix dimenstions etc.
